The main difference between sealed classes and enum classes in Kotlin lies in their structure and use cases. Here's a breakdown of the differences:

1. Purpose:
Sealed Class: Used when you have a hierarchy of classes and each subclass can hold different types of data. It's helpful when each type needs its own specific properties and methods.
Enum Class: Used when you have a fixed set of constants, all of which are instances of the same type. Enum values are typically used for simple states or constants.
2. Flexibility:
Sealed Class: Can have multiple subclasses with their own unique properties and behavior.
Enum Class: Consists of a fixed set of constants (enum values) that share the same structure and behavior. Enum values are essentially predefined, unchangeable objects.
3. Subclasses:
Sealed Class: Allows subclassing. You can create classes that inherit from the sealed class, and each subclass can have its own properties.
Enum Class: Does not support subclassing. All the enum values are instances of the enum class itself.
4. Data Holding:
Sealed Class: Can hold different types of data for each subclass. Each subclass can have its own properties and methods.
Enum Class: Enum constants are typically single values, though they can hold simple data using constructor parameters, but all must share the same properties.
5. When Expression:
Sealed Class: Works well with a when expression, allowing you to handle each subclass separately, and it doesn't require an else clause because the compiler knows all possible subclasses.
Enum Class: Works with a when expression as well, but it's just for handling the fixed set of enum values.
Example Comparison:
Sealed Class Example:
kotlin
Copy code
sealed class Shape {
    class Circle(val radius: Double) : Shape()
    class Square(val side: Double) : Shape()
    class Rectangle(val length: Double, val width: Double) : Shape()
}
Here, Circle, Square, and Rectangle are all subclasses of Shape, and each one holds different types of data.
Enum Class Example:
kotlin
Copy code
enum class Direction {
    NORTH, SOUTH, EAST, WEST
}
Here, NORTH, SOUTH, EAST, and WEST are constants of the same type, and all share the same structure.
When to Use:
Sealed Class: Use it when you need a type hierarchy with various types of data or behaviors for each subclass.
Enum Class: Use it when you have a fixed, predefined set of values (e.g., directions, states, days of the week) that don't need to hold complex data.
Summary:
Feature	Sealed Class	Enum Class
Use Case	Hierarchy of related types	Fixed set of constant values
Subclassing	Supports subclasses	Does not support subclasses
Data Holding	Can have different properties per subclass	Same properties for all values
When Expression	No else needed, subclasses handled individually	No else needed for enum values
Flexibility	More flexible, complex data	Limited, simple constants